THINGS-TO-DO
In Town for the Holidays? Here’s How to Make the Most of the Season in Boston
From seasonal artisan markets to beloved performances, there’s much to do in Boston this winter

Boston comes to life in the winter, and there’s tons of activities, shopping, and performances to check out. Whether you’re staying local for the holiday season or are simply looking for a way to decompress after finals, you can’t go wrong with this list of BU Today’s seasonal picks. Be sure to head to some of these festivities before dining service ends on December 21 and campus residences close on December 22. And double your fun by taking a look at this roundup of New Year’s Eve events.

Shopping
The Holiday Market at Snowport
Featuring more than 120 local vendors, Snowport is back for a third year, where Boston’s Seaport District transforms into a wonderland of artisan shops, restaurants, activities, and more. You can knock out all of your holiday shopping in one go, plus grab a snack while you watch the twinkling Christmas lights all around you. You can even sign up for 30 free minutes of curling at the Snowport curling lanes.

The Holiday Market at Snowport, 100 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, is open Sundays through Thursdays from 11 am to 8 pm, and Fridays and Saturdays from 11 am to 9 pm. Visit the Snowport website for more information.

SoWa Winter Festival
The SoWa Winter Festival is both a shopping destination and an entertainment space. Over 100 local artists and crafters sit under the soaring roof of the SoWa Power Station in Boston’s trendy South End, selling items from homemade chocolates to handmade jewelry to unique artworks. Head upstairs for live holiday entertainment or step outside to grab a bite from one of the many nearby food trucks.

The SoWa Winter Festival, 550 Harrison Ave., Boston, is open Sundays through Thursdays. Admission is $10. Find more information, including hours of operation, at the SoWa Winter Festival website.

Performance
Boston Ballet’s The Nutcracker
The beloved holiday tradition is back, running through December 31 at the Citizens Bank Opera House. Experience the magic of Mikko Nissinen’s choreography and Pyotr Tchaikovsky’s timeless score, as young heroine Clara is whisked away to a winter wonderland full of snowflakes, candies, and, of course, the Sugar Plum Fairy.

The Nutcracker, Citizens Bank Opera House, 539 Washington St., Boston, runs through December 31. Tickets start at $25; purchase here.

Boston Symphony Orchestra’s Holiday Pops
The world-famous orchestra Boston Pops orchestra is ringing in the holidays with their iconic concert series, Holiday Pops. Experience the magic of classic favorites like “Hark! The Herald Angels Sing,” and the special Holiday Pops version of “Sleigh Ride,” in a comfortable, family-friendly environment. It’s a magical way to celebrate the most wonderful time of the year.

Holiday Pops, Boston Symphony Hall, 301 Massachusetts Ave., Boston, runs through December 24. Purchase tickets here.

Disney on Ice: Into the Magic
Disney on Ice is bringing its spellbinding show, Into the Magic, to Agganis Arena this holiday season. Watch iconic stories from your favorite Disney characters come to life, like Belle and the charmed castle, Moana and her voyage across the ocean, Anna journeying up the North Mountain to Elsa’s aid, and more. It’s perfect for families and sure to delight Disney fans of all ages.

Disney on Ice: Into the Magic is at Agganis Arena, 925 Commonwealth Ave., from December 21 to January 1. Purchase tickets, starting at $15, here.

Lights
Christmas Trees
Get into the Christmas spirit with Boston’s huge Christmas trees at Boston Common and Faneuil Hall. The 45-foot tree at Boston Common is part of a century-old tradition: each year the Canadian province of Nova Scotia gifts a tree to the city in recognition of Boston’s assistance after the 1917 Halifax Harbour explosion. The tree is lit in a special celebration each year. The 30-foot tree at Faneuil Hall lies in the heart of the shopping hub, making it a perfect place to go for holiday cheer and gift shopping.

Commonwealth Avenue Lights
Each winter, the Commonwealth Avenue Mall is illuminated by Christmas lights that wrap around the trees along the scenic thoroughfare. Go on a walk and take in the festive spirit—preferably with a steaming hot chocolate in hand.

Hatchlings
This winter, visitors to the Rose Kennedy Greenway and the Charles River Esplanade can view a solar-powered public art installation featuring winter lights in the shape of Boston’s iconic outdoor performance space, the Hatch Memorial Shell. A collaboration between Studio HHH and the Greenway Conservancy and Esplanade Association, the project was inspired by a simple question: “What if the Hatch Shell on the Esplanade hatched a cluster of baby ‘shells’ that wandered off down the Greenway like adventurous ducklings?” The exhibition is on view through February 25.

Exhibitions and Activities
Ice-Skating in Boston
Nothing taps into the winter spirit more than a day at an ice rink. Luckily, Boston has you covered with many ice-skating opportunities across the city. The Rink at 401 Park is a fan favorite and it’s right in the heart of Fenway. The rink offers $7 ice skate rentals, and students can purchase discounted tickets with valid school ID. Meanwhile, farther downtown, the Boston Common Frog Pond is nothing short of an ice-skating paradise. College students can head to the Frog Pond every Tuesday from 6 to 9 pm for half-price tickets, and BU students can even receive free admission on January 9 as part of the rink’s College Nights program. This is the perfect time to hit the ice, whether you’re an experienced skater or a newbie.

View hours for The Rink at 401 Park, 401 Park Drive, Boston, and buy tickets here. Tickets for the Boston Common Frog Pond, 38 Beacon St., Boston, are sold on site; view hours here.

Old Town Trolley’s Holiday Sights & Festive Nights Tour
Old Town Trolley is putting a seasonal twist on its iconic city tours with this “Dickensian Adventure” on a heated orange-and-green streetcar. Learn about the city’s holiday history from costumed character guides, check out the twinkling lights, and enjoy stops at Boston Common, the Omni Parker House, and historic Charles Street. Each tour includes a small seasonal treat for participants.

Tours depart from the Marriott Long Wharf, 200 Atlantic Ave., Boston. Check out a tour schedule and buy tickets here.

Drinking Chocolate from L. A. Burdick
Tucked between the tall buildings of downtown Boston’s Clarendon Street, L. A. Burdick is a holiday oasis in the city. The little cottage looks like it’s straight out of a fairy tale and offers sweets and treats to get you in the celebratory spirit. Nothing warms you up on a cold Boston night like drinking a famous hot chocolate from this chocolatier.
