The Results Are In: These Are the Best Holiday Movies According to Our Instagram Followers
It’s time to get watching, BU!


This is a screenshot from boston university's instagram story. The image was made on canva, using a stock photo of a string of holiday lights. In the middle of the photo, there is green and white text that reads "Holiday Movie Contest."
It’s that time of year again, Terriers! As the weather gets colder and the holidays creep up, it’s only natural to begin your movie-binging. There’s nothing quite like snuggling up with loved ones and indulging in heartwarming films that capture the magic of the holidays. That said, it can be time-consuming to find a film everyone will agree on, so we asked the Terriers who follow @bostonu on Instagram do the picking for you. Here’s a list of the top five holiday classics our followers agreed on. 

1. Elf
This is a gif from the movie Elf. Elf is in the elevator with a stranger and he is pressing every single button and says "It looks like a Christmas tree." There is text at the bottom of the screen that reflects what he is saying. It is in a white, bold font.
Courtesy of giphy.com
It’s funny, heartwarming, and great for the whole family. Laughing is pretty standard when watching any Will Ferrell movie, no matter what age you are. The comedy follows Buddy, a human raised by elves at the North Pole, as he embarks on a journey to New York City to find his real father, Walter Hobbs. Buddy’s childlike innocence clashes with the bustling and cynical world of humans until he’s able to spread holiday cheer.

Available for streaming on Max & Hulu (free with subscription)

2. Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer
This is a GIF from the movie Rudolph the Red-Nosed reindeer. The animated red-nosed reindeer has bells around his neck and is looking forward, nodding his head back and forth.
Courtesy of giphy.com
🎶 Rudolph, with your nose so bright, won’t you guide my sleigh tonight! 🎶

Rudolph, of course, is a holiday classic. The film is right up there with the animated Santa Claus and Frosty the Snowman movies everyone knows and loves from their childhood. The film is about one of Santa’s reindeers—Rudolph, whose luminous red nose sets him apart from his peers. Originally shamed and embarrassed by his unique feature, Rudolph discovers that his special ability becomes the key to guiding Santa’s sleigh on a foggy Christmas Eve. 

Available for purchase on Amazon Prime ($7.99)

3. Home Alone
Movie gif. Kevin Mcallister has a snarl on his face in the movie Home Alone while he's saying "Merry Christmas You Filthy Animal"
Courtesy of giphy.com
Could this be a must-watch holiday movie list without Home Alone? This was Terriers’ most loved holiday movie, winning by a landslide. In case you somehow haven’t watched it, the story follows a young boy who is accidentally left behind during his family’s vacation. While home, Kevin must defend the house against a duo of goofy burglars. It’s an original comedy classic!

Available for streaming on Disney+ & Hulu (free with Premium subscription)

4. Love Actually
Movie gif. This was from the movie Love Actually and actor Bill Nighy is singing and spinning around in front of a microphone. Behind him is a winter themed set with fake snow and mountains. There are backup dancers wearing santa dresses, dancing in sync.  
Courtesy of giphy.com
This film follows the lives of eight very different couples dealing with their love life in various loosely interrelated tales, all set during a frantic month before Christmas in London.

The overriding message? The holidays are better when you spend them with the people who care about you, and that’s good enough for us.

Available for streaming on Netflix (free with subscription)

5. The Polar Express
Movie gif from the film The Polar Express. This is from a scene where the characters are on the train and the waiters are doing a jig around them.  
Courtesy of giphy.com
Cozy up with a cup of HOT…HOT…HOT…HOT CHOC-O-LATE and catch The Polar Express! The film follows a young boy on Christmas Eve who embarks on a magical adventure to the North Pole on a train, the Polar Express, while learning about friendship, bravery, and the spirit of Christmas.

The train conductor, played by Tom Hanks, spoke one of the most iconic lines in holiday film history: “Seeing is believing, but sometimes the most real things in the world are the things we can’t see.”

Available for streaming on Hulu, Max, and Amazon Prime (free with subscription)

Happy holidays, Terriers! Let us know if we missed one of your favorites in the Comment section below. ⬇️

EXPLORE RELATED TOPICS: HOLIDAY
Share this story 
1 Comments ADD
McKayla Richardson
COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR

McKayla Richardson is a Communications Coordinator on the Social Media/Public Relations Team at Boston University. She is a graduate of the University of Rhode Island with a B.A. in Public Relations and Writing & Rhetoric. She enjoys spending time at the beach, exercising, and being with her friends and family.
