UNIVERSITY NEWS
Tracy Schroeder, Transformational Leader of BU IS&T, Departing for West Coast Position
During a 14-year tenure, she oversaw revolutionary changes in how technology is used, accessed, and improved for the University community

After 14 years at Boston University, Tracy Schroeder is departing for the University of California, Berkeley. Photo by Dan Aguirre

UNIVERSITY NEWS
Tracy Schroeder, Transformational Leader of BU IS&T, Departing for West Coast Position
During a 14-year tenure, she oversaw revolutionary changes in how technology is used, accessed, and improved for the University community
December 15, 2023
2
Doug Most
Whenever you log in to the BUWorks or MyBUStudent portal, connect to Boston University’s Wi-Fi in your dorm room, sign up for a vaccine with Student Health Services, Zoom with a colleague while working from home, or update your BU Directory profile with your pronouns and gender identity, it all may seem like routine to you. But none of it happens without the efforts of BU Information Services & Technology, which has undergone enormous growth during the last 14 years—all of it under Tracy Schroeder.

BU’s vice president of IS&T and chief data officer, Schroeder is leaving the University to become associate vice chancellor for information technology and chief information officer at the University of California, Berkeley. It marks a return to the West Coast for Schroeder, who worked at the University of San Francisco prior to joining BU in 2009. She is a graduate of both USF and Stanford University (and she is working on a master’s in business administration at the Questrom School of Business and will finish the academic year at BU before joining Berkeley in June).

Her tenure at BU coincided with an explosion of revolutionary change in the universe of information technology, internet speed, and data systems. Need proof? The amount of time we spend on our mobile devices daily increased from 32 minutes to 132 minutes in the last decade. In 2010, more than 90 percent of data was being kept in local servers, and by 2020 public cloud storage had claimed roughly 30 percent of that. And with the evolution from 3G to 5G networks, download speeds took off, to a point where the download time for an 800-megabyte movie plunged from five hours all the way down to 43 seconds. Those types of dramatic changes all must be managed by an organization’s information technology department to keep employees current with the latest available innovations and technological advancements.

“During Tracy’s 14 years leading IS&T at BU she has overseen a remarkable transformation, establishing BU as an innovative thought leader,” says Kenneth Freeman, University president ad interim. “From establishing an effective IT governance structure to implementing a comprehensive roadmap of IT infrastructure and applications improvements, Tracy’s legacy at BU is leaving behind a high-performing team that delivers solutions for the entire BU community.”

Photo: A classroom of students sitting at long tables arranged in rows, work on their laptops in a bright BU classroom.
Expanding easily accessible Wi-Fi across the University was one of Schroeder’s major achievements. Photo by Janice Checchio
In addition to her work at BU, Schroeder became a thought leader in her industry, starting with her volunteer work in national higher education IT leadership through EDUCAUSE. She has also focused on growing opportunities for women in the IT field, as well as for those from underrepresented communities. And she helped lead a collaboration with Harvard, UMass, Northeastern, and MIT on the creation of the Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center.

But it’s Schroeder’s work at BU that will be felt for generations. Some of her biggest achievements across the University’s campuses: deploying wireless coverage to BU residence halls and deploying technology into general purpose classrooms; implementing numerous institution-wide information systems, such as BUworks, MyCV, and, currently, MyBU Student; creating BU’s Business Warehouse and Academic Data Warehouse for data analytics; making Google and Microsoft cloud-based email and collaboration platforms available to BU students, faculty, and staff; and making it easier for BU community members to change their display name and include their gender identity and pronouns in the BU Directory.

Few people within BU understand the challenges of the work IS&T does, and Schroeder’s role, as well as Michael Krugman, who retired in 2017 after 40 years working in IS&T. Prior to Schroeder’s arrival, he served under Robert A. Brown, then University president, as the department’s interim vice president.

“Given the complexity of her responsibilities and her persistent modesty, I suspect there are far too few people among us who appreciate how fortunate we are to have had the benefit of her incomparable leadership,” Krugman says. “Technology grew to touch everyone and everything at BU and beyond in the 21st century, spanning research, education, and administration, as well as students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Tracy helped ensure IT service and support at BU was reliable, scalable, flexible, sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective, all against a backdrop of constantly accelerating change in both the available options and our evolving requirements.”

Tracy helped ensure IT service and support at BU was reliable, scalable, flexible, sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective, all against a backdrop of constantly accelerating change.
Michael Krugman
He will always have “the greatest respect, admiration and gratitude” for her contributions to BU, he says: “In summary, she’s amazing.”

Christine McGuire, vice president and associate provost for enrollment and student administration, says Schroeder has always been driven to make sure BU’s tech infrastructure was worthy of a leading research institution. And McGuire specifically credits her with the launching of BU’s Student Information System. “She has been dedicated, over the many years of this effort, to ensure the success of the program. She has consistently led the program with a vision that meeting the needs of students should remain at the core of our work in replacing the Student Information System,” she says.

In announcing Schroeder’s hiring, Ben Hermalin, Berkeley’s executive vice chancellor and provost, touted all the reasons she was their ideal candidate, a list that highlights much of the work she accomplished at BU.

He wrote: “Tracy’s candidacy made an immediate and lasting impression on the Search Committee for her long and impressive career in higher education IT, her commitment to innovation, and her passion for diversity, equity, and inclusion in service of the public good.”

EXPLORE RELATED TOPICS: STAFF TECHNOLOGY
Share this story 
2 Comments ADD
Doug Most
ASSOCIATE VICE PRESIDENT, EXECUTIVE EDITOR, EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT 

Doug Most is a lifelong journalist and author whose career has spanned newspapers and magazines up and down the East Coast, with stops in Washington, D.C., South Carolina, New Jersey, and Boston. He was named Journalist of the Year while at The Record in Bergen County, N.J., for his coverage of a tragic story about two teens charged with killing their newborn. After a stint at Boston Magazine, he worked for more than a decade at the Boston Globe in various roles, including magazine editor and deputy managing editor/special projects. His 2014 nonfiction book, The Race Underground, tells the story of the birth of subways in America and was made into a PBS/American Experience documentary. He has a BA in political communication from George Washington University.
