HOLIDAY FUN
Where to See Boston’s Eight Best Holiday Lights
Stroll through these beautiful light displays to get in the festive spirit

If you are sticking around Boston for the holidays, or call the city home, we have you covered with a wintry guide to put you in a festive mood. Read our comprehensive list of holiday lights and shows sure to amaze you. Don’t forget to bundle up!

Boston Common Christmas Tree
Boston Common
The annual Christmas tree at the Boston Common stands at an impressive 45 feet tall, and is bedecked with lights and ornaments for all to see. For the 52nd year, a Nova Scotia tree was donated to the city, this time by Bette Gourley and her family from Stewiacke, Nova Scotia. The Canadian province has gifted Boston a Christmas tree every year since 1971 in gratitude for the city’s relief efforts following a deadly ship collision in Canada’s Halifax Harbour in 1917. Stop by this winter season—the tree is a great spot for photos.

Commonwealth Avenue Mall Holiday Lights
Arlington Street and Commonwealth Avenue, Back Bay
Trees along the Commonwealth Avenue Mall are illuminated with beautiful white lights. This event is funded by community support and private donations raised by the Commonwealth Avenue Mall Enhancement Committee. Pro tip: Lounge on the mall with a hot cocoa from a nearby Newbury Street cafe and check out the area’s many historic statues, illuminated by the season’s festive lights.

Charlesgate Park Trees
Along the intersection of Commonwealth Avenue and Charlesgate East
Nighttime in a city park with a main road in the background. The park is accompanied with four trees which are wrapped with green-glowing string lights.
Photo courtesy of Randall Albright
The Emerald Necklace Conservancy and the Charlesgate Alliance decorated 10 trees on the Boston Common and the Commonwealth Avenue Mall for this year’s holiday season. The Japanese zelkova trees, lit up with emerald green lights, help distinguish Charlesgate as a bridge between the Commonwealth Avenue Mall and the rest of the Emerald Necklace. The trees bring awareness to the Conservancy’s ongoing efforts to restore Charlesgate Park and cast a green hue over the park’s lawn. The trees will stay lit through March 2024.

Christopher Columbus Park Trellis Lighting
110 Atlantic Ave., Boston
The Friends of Christopher Columbus Park latticed 260 feet of the waterfront’s trellis with 50,000 blue lights. The 20-plus-year tradition has brought wintry cheer to the city of Boston every holiday season since 2002. Bring the kids for a romp on the playground or pair the spectacle with a trip to nearby Faneuil Hall.

Martin’s Park Lighting of the Ship
64 Sleeper St., South Boston
Boston is speckled with slivers of green space, but Martin’s Park stands out for its climate-friendly design, handicap accessibility, and giant pirate ship for kids to play on. The ship and surrounding fencing will be draped with 1,500 holiday lights this season. Built in memory of the Boston Marathon bombings’ youngest victim, Martin W. Richard, the park sits on the Boston Harborwalk along the historic and beautiful Boston Harbor. After you see the lights, venture just south of the park with the kids—or kids at heart—in your life for a visit to the Boston Children’s Museum.

Menorah Lighting at Snowport
60 Seaport Blvd., Boston
Two pictures. The one on the left features a bearded man with a brimmed hat on stands in front of a giant, fully lit Menorah. The one on the right features an indiviual capturing a lit Christmas tree with an iPhone. The individual is featured in the bottom left hand corner while the bottom portion of the Christmas tree is featured in the right hand corners.
Photos courtesy of Boston Seaport by WS Development
Photo: A crowd of people watch as an enormous tree is lit up with Christmas lights. Many of them hold phones up to takes photos and videos. One person's screen can be seen showing the full length of the decorated and lit tree.
Sunday, December 10, at 4:30 pm

The Chabad of Downtown Boston will host their annual menorah lighting ceremony at Snowport, Seaport’s winter market. The event will include lighting a colossal nine-foot menorah, treats, and more. There’s a ton happening elsewhere at Snowport, too: a holiday market featuring over 120 small businesses, food and drink, and a 50-foot holiday tree adorned with 10,000 twinkling lights.

ZooLights at Stone Zoo
149 Pond St., Stoneham
A tight-framed picture of the ZooLights. They feature a child-size wooden bear sitting down, and various bushes in the fore and background wrapped with string lights. The lights in the foreground are red and green while the lights in the background are blue and purple. The ground and the bushed are covered with a nice pile of snow.
Photo courtesy of Zoo New England
Enter a winter wonderland of tree-lined paths illuminated by thousands of sparkling lights along 26 acres of the Stone Zoo. Home to black bears, Canada lynx, reindeer, and more, the display will also feature model trains and other wintry set pieces. On select dates through December 22, you can take photos with Santa Claus. Tickets for the Santa Experience event sell out quickly, so make sure to plan ahead. The lights will continue shining through January 7, from 4 pm to 9:30 pm, excluding Christmas Day. Find ticket info here.

Somerville Illuminations Tour
Somerville High School, 81 Highland Ave., Somerville
Somerville residents go all out for the holidays, donning their houses with lights and lawn ornaments. Thankfully, the Somerville Arts Council has us covered with a detailed map and tour route of all the most dazzling displays. Drive the path yourself or cycle over to Somerville High School at 5:45 pm on December 16 for a guided bike tour.

